MAME 0.181

<p>Happy new year from the MAME team!  To help you celebrate, we’re
unwrapping an extra-special release this month, with enough improvements
to put anyone in a good mood.  The exciting news that’s got people
talking is that protected microcontrollers (MCUs) from a number of games
have been read out and hooked up in MAME.  This gives real, emulated
sound in Toaplan’s Vimana, Fire Shark (also known as Same! Same! Same!)
and Teki Paki, proper emulation of Tokio/Scramble Formation, M-chip
emulation for Taito Extermination, Dr Toppel and Plump Pop, MCU
emulation for Sega Altered Beast and Golden Axe, and partial sound in
World Beach Volley.  There’s more coming on this front, so stay tuned
for upcoming releases!</p>

<p>MAME 0.181 also marks the debut of Votrax SC-01 emulation in MAME,
based on reverse-engineering die photographs.  The digital section
should be pretty much perfect, although there are still some issues in
the analog section (plosives don’t sound quite right).  Overall, it’s a
huge improvement in Votrax speech synthesis emulation, and a great leap
forward in our understanding of how the hardware works.  It also means
speech samples are no longer required for a number of games.</p>

<p>Building on the ARM improvements in last month’s release, we now have
working floppy drives and sound in the Acorn Archimedes driver, and
default NVRAM images for the US Aristocrat Mark 5 games.  This greatly
increases the amount of RISC OS software you can try out, improves the
gameplay experience in the Archimedes-based arcade games, and allows you
to play the Aristocrat gamblers without having to make your way through
the setup process first.</p>

<p>MAME’s discrete netlist emulation library has been expanded
substantially in this release, including some new classes of devices
like ROMs, and many newly supported logic chips.  This will make it
substantially easier to emulate arcade games which used discrete TTL
logic, and as a test of this new functionality, the TTL video board from
the Hazeltine 1500 intelligent terminal is now emulated using the
netlist system.  There’s ongoing work in this area involving multiple
developers, so look out for more exciting updates in this space.</p>

<p>We’ve fixed some fairly significant bugs, including one preventing
the debugger from working on Linux or Mac with drivers that use a
dynamic recompiler core, and one that could cause MAME to crash when
using BDF fonts.  The internal UI should be more efficient if you’re
using icons now, and issues with spurious key repeats should be reduced.
The Beezer driver has been rewritten and should be improved overall.</p>

<p>There are quite a few newly dumped arcade games in this release,
including Eeekk!, Simpson Junior (a Korean bootleg of J. J. Squawkers),
Power Flipper Pinball Shooting (an updated version of Grand Cross), a
version of Momoko 120% with English text, Miss World 2002 (an adult Qix
game), and alternate versions of The NewZealand Story, Real Bout Fatal
Fury, Space Dungeon, Flicky and Turbo Force.  The Apricot PC and Xi are
now working, further increasing MAME’s coverage of DOS-based computers
that aren’t IBM-compatible.  You can also play with the COP44L version
of Entex Space Invader, and Mattel Funtronics Jacks and Red Light Green
Light.</p>

<p>There are far too many improvements to list here, including lots of
fixes for graphics and flip screen issues, but you can read all about it
in the <a
href="http://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0181.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or grab the source or Windows binaries from <a
href="http://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a> and start
playing.</p>
