MAME 0.180

<p>Hello everybody!  Are you ready for the November MAME release?  It’s
definitely ready for you, and there are lots of reasons to get excited
this time around.  First and foremost, a number of ARM CPU core fixes
mean you can now boot to the RISC OS desktop on an emulated Acorn
Archimedes, and try some of the included applications.  The same bug
fixes allow a number of Aristocrat Mark 5 gambling machines to boot and
run in demonstration mode.  There are still some issues to iron out, but
things have definitely improved enormously.</p>

<p>On the arcade front, protection on Atari Space Lords has finally been
reverse-engineered making the game playable.  This is an interesting
space combat game for one or two players, where the second player takes
on the role of the gunner/co-pilot.  In another improvement that’s been
a long time coming, The Acclaim RAX sound board is now emulated,
bringing sound to Batman Forever and NBA Jam Extreme.  There are
substantial improvements to the Magnet System emulation (added in last
month’s release) making these rare prototype bootlegs playable.  David
Haywood also fixed some graphical issues in Altered Beast, and Angelo
Salese fixed graphical issues in The Lost Castle in Darkmist.</p>

<p>There are some other notable improvements in computer emulation, too.
Barry Rodewald has added support for IC Card (PCMCIA SRAM) storage on
the FM Towns, and substantially improved LSI Octopus emulation.  The Mac
128/512/Plus drivers have been modernised, and serial port support has
been added to the Apple IIgs driver.  Another DEC Rainbow 100 update
from Bavarese fixes colours in high-resolution mode among other
improvements.</p>

<p>Newly supported systems include RC De Go (Go By RC outside Japan),
newly dumped versions of 1945k III, Forgotten Worlds, Sol Divide and
Vendetta, the Italian release of Mustache Boy, 286-based versions of the
Intel iSBC, bootlegs of Blue Shark, Pole Position II and Ozma Wars, more
Fidelity and Mephisto chess computers, and more electronic toys.</p>

<p>As usual you can read all the gory details in the <a
href="http://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0180.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or go right ahead and get source or Windows binaries from <a
href="http://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a> and have
some fun.</p>
